docs: order confirmation tutorial (#1381)
slackapi/bolt-python: docs/english/tutorial/order-confirmation/order-confirmation.md

---
title: Create a Salesforce order confirmation app
---

<Columns> 
  <Column>

>     Use the Bolt for Python starter template to create a simple order confirmation app that links to a system of record—like Salesforce—in this tutorial.
> 
>     The scenario: you work for a large e-commerce company that employs many delivery workers. Those delivery workers don’t have access to a laptop when they’re on the go, but they do have access to Slack on their mobile devices. This tutorial teaches you how to create a simple Slack app that is geared towards these workers. Delivery drivers will enter order numbers on their mobile, along with some additional information about the order. That information is then sent to a channel in Slack and to a system of record. In this tutorial, Salesforce is our system of record..

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In this tutorial, you'll use the Bolt for Python framework to create an order confirmation app that links to a system of record—like Salesforce.

The Slack app will:
* allow users to enter order numbers from within Slack, along with some additional order information,
* post that information to a Slack channel, and
* send the information to the system of record. 

End users will be able to enter information across devices, as many will likely be using a mobile device. 

```

what about something like this

  </Column>
  <Column> 
    ![Image of delivery tracker app](/img/bolt-python/delivery-tracker-main.png)
  </Column>

> </Columns>

Reviewer: i see what you're going for here - matching how it was on the other website. But I think it makes more sense for us to just completely reformat this to match how the rest of our tutorials work. Perhaps with the image all the way at the bottom (although being at the top is fine too)

> You’ll also learn how to use the Bolt for Python starter app template and modify it to fit your needs. Note that this app is meant to be used for educational purposes and has not been tested rigorously enough to be used in production

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Along the way, you'll learn how to use the Bolt for Python starter app template as a jumping off point for your own custom apps. Let's begin!

:::warning[Consider the following]

This tutorial was created for educational purposes within a Slack workshop. As a result, it's not been tested quite as rigorously as our sample apps. Proceed carefully if you'd like to use a similar app in production

```

## Getting started

### Installing the Slack CLI

If you don't already have it, install the Slack CLI from your terminal. Navigate to the installation guide ([for Mac and Linux](/tools/slack-cli/guides/installing-the-slack-cli-for-mac-and-linux) or [for Windows](/tools/slack-cli/guides/installing-the-slack-cli-for-windows)) and follow the steps.

### Cloning the starter app

Once installed, use the command `slack create` in your terminal and find the `bolt-python-starter-template`. Alternatively, you can clone the [Bolt for Python template](https://github.com/slack-samples/bolt-python-starter-template) using git.

You can remove the portions from the template that are not used within this tutorial to make things a bit cleaner for yourself. To do this, open your project and delete the commands, events, and shortcuts folders from the `/listeners` folder. You can also do the same to the corresponding folders within the `/listeners/tests` folder as well. Finally, remove the imports of these files from the `/listeners/__init__.py` file.

## Creating your app

> We’ll use the contents of the `manifest.json` file below, which can also be found [here](https://github.com/wongjas/delivery-confirmation-app/blob/main/manifest.json). This file describes the metadata associated with your app, like its name and permissions that it requests.

Reviewer: Do we want them accessing this personal repo? I'd lean not to, especially if we're just copying the entire manifest below

Copy the contents of the file and [create a new app](https://api.slack.com/apps/new). Next, choose **From a manifest** and follow the prompts, pasting the manifest file contents you copied.

```json
{
  "_metadata": {
      "major_version": 1,
      "minor_version": 1
  },
  "display_information": {
      "name": "Name your app here!" 
  },
  "features": {
      "bot_user": {
          "display_name": "Name your app here!",
          "always_online": false
      }
  },
  "oauth_config": {
      "scopes": {
          "bot": [
              "channels:history",
              "chat:write"
          ]
      }
  },
  "settings": {
      "event_subscriptions": {
          "bot_events": [
              "message.channels"
          ]
      },
      "interactivity": {
          "is_enabled": true
      },
      "org_deploy_enabled": false,
      "socket_mode_enabled": true,
      "token_rotation_enabled": false
  }
}
```

> Customize your app with a name of your own instead of the default in the `display_name` and `name` fields.

Reviewer: i'd remove this and update the name. this is a specific tutorial not a general guide

### Tokens

Once your app has been created, scroll down to **App-Level Tokens** on the **Basic Information** page and create a token that requests the [`connections:write`](/reference/scopes/connections.write) scope. This token will allow you to use [Socket Mode](/apis/events-api/using-socket-mode), which is a secure way to develop on Slack through the use of WebSockets. Save the value of your app token and store it in a safe place (we’ll use it in the next step).

### Install app

> Install your app by navigating to **Install App** in the left sidebar. When you press **Allow**, this means you’re agreeing to install your app with the permissions that it’s requesting. Copy the bot token that you receive as well and store this in a safe place as well for subsequent steps.

Reviewer: i'd add some clarity at the beginning of these that we are still in app settings. lots of times people will jump to different sections of a tutorial when something goes wrong and its disorienting without that context

## Starting your app's server

Within a terminal of your choice, set the two tokens from the previous step as environment variables using the commands below. Make sure not to mix these two up, `SLACK_APP_TOKEN` will start with “xapp-“ and `SLACK_BOT_TOKEN` will start with “xoxb-“.

```bash
export SLACK_APP_TOKEN=<YOUR-APP-TOKEN-HERE>
export SLACK_BOT_TOKEN=<YOUR-BOT-TOKEN-HERE>
```

Run the following commands to activate a virtual environment for your Python packages to be installed, install the dependencies, and start your app.

```bash
# Setup your python virtual environment
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate

# Install the dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Start your local server
python3 app.py
```

Now that your app is running, you should be able to see it within Slack. In Slack, create a channel that you can test in and try inviting your bot to it using the `/invite @Your-app-name-here` command. Check that your app works by saying “hi” in the channel where your app is, and you should receive a message back from it. If you don’t, ensure you completed all the steps above.

## Coding the app

> There will be four major steps needed to get from the template to the finish line:

Reviewer: "there's only 16 miles left!" tracy says to us
```suggestion
We'll make four changes to the app:
```

1. Update the “hi” message to something more interesting and interactive
2. Handle when the wrong delivery ID button is pressed
3. Handle when the correct delivery IDs are sent and bring up a modal for more information

> 4. Send the information to all of the places needed when the form is submitted (including third-party locations)

Reviewer: v nuanced thought that doesn't matter really. should these be unordered? They are indeed ordered that way reading the tutorial straight down, but they aren't really dependent on each other as ordered lists imply

> All of these steps require you to use [Block Kit Builder](https://app.slack.com/block-kit-builder), a tool that helps you create messages, modals and other surfaces within Slack. Open [Block Kit Builder](https://app.slack.com/block-kit-builder), take a look and play around! We’ll create some views next.

Reviewer: I mean, they don't _have_ to use block kit builder, right? Some people make blocks (me) straight from the reference docs

### Updating the "hi" message

> The first thing we want to do is change the “hi, how are you?” message from our app into something more useful. Here’s something that you can use to start off with, but you can make it your own within Block Kit Builder. Once you have something you like, copy the blocks by clicking the **Copy Payload** button in the top right.

Reviewer: oh im getting the context. this is prob a low-code workshop so we told them they have to use bkb. i'd change the references to block kit in general, add the links to the proper reference page (like section for here) and then a little callout saying they can use bkb

Take the function below and place your blocks within the blocks dictionary `[]`.  Update the payload: 

> * Remove the initial blocks key and convert any boolean true values to `True` to fit with Python conventions.

Reviewer: i've never thought about having to convert block kit to python convention this would be so annoyinggggg

> * If you see variables within `{}` brackets, this is part of an f-string, which allows you to insert variables within strings in a clean manner. Place the `f` character before these strings like this:

Reviewer: this is fine to stay but arguably not needed - any python dev is going to know what an f string is. but i guess this also catches first time devs, who would prob pick python as a starting poitn hmmmm

Reviewer: oh circling back to this forgot that they'll want to pythonify variables, so this is maybe useful to keep

```python
{
    "type": "section",
    "text": {
        "type": "mrkdwn",
        "text": f"Confirm *{delivery_id}* is correct?", # place the "f" character here at the beginning of the string
    },
},
```

Place all of this in the `sample_message.py` file.

```python
def delivery_message_callback(context: BoltContext, say: Say, logger: Logger):
    try:
        delivery_id = context["matches"][0]
        say( 
            blocks=[] # insert your blocks here
        )
    except Exception as e:
        logger.error(e)
```

Next, you’ll need to make some connections so that this function is called when a message is sent in the channel where your app is. Head to `messages/__init__.py` and add the line below to the register function. Don’t forget to add the import to the callback function as well!

```python

from .sample_message import delivery_message_callback ## import the function to this file

def register(app: App):
    app.message(re.compile("(hi|hello|hey)"))(sample_message_callback) # This can be deleted!
    # This regex will capture any number letters followed by dash 
    # and then any number of digits, our "confirmation number" e.g. ASDF-1234

>     app.message(re.compile(r"[A-Za-z]+-\d+"))(delivery_message_callback) ## add this line!

Reviewer: I would call out this regex specifically - we're not filtering for a v specific type of order confirmation that someone copying and pasting quickly might be confused about when they don't realize that

```

Now, restart your server to bring in the new code and test that your function works by sending an order confirmation ID, like `HWOA-1524`, in your testing channel. Your app should respond with the message you created within Block Kit Builder.

### Handling an incorrect delivery ID

Notice that if you try to click on either of the buttons within your message, nothing will happen. This is because we have yet to create a function to handle the button click. Let’s start with the `Not correct` button first.

> 1. Head to Block Kit Builder once again. We want to build a message that lets the user know that the wrong order ID has been submitted. Here's [something to get you started](https://app.slack.com/block-kit-builder/#%7B%22blocks%22:%5B%7B%22type%22:%22section%22,%22text%22:%7B%22type%22:%22mrkdwn%22,%22text%22:%22Delivery%20*%7Bdelivery_id%7D*%20was%20incorrect%20%E2%9D%8C%22%7D%7D%5D%7D).

Reviewer: I'd put the block kit snippet directly here, and then link out to the BKB. like how we do it in our reference odcs with "view this in bkb" buttons

        # Calls the chat.update function to replace the message, 
        # preventing it from being pressed more than once.
        client.chat_update(
            channel=body["container"]["channel_id"],
            ts=body["container"]["message_ts"],
            blocks=[], # Add your blocks here!
        )

        logger.info(f"Delivery denied by user {body['user']['id']}")
    except Exception as e:
        logger.error(e)
```

This function will call the [`chat.update`](/reference/methods/chat.update) Web API method, which will update the original message with buttons, to the one that we created previously. This will also prevent the message from being pressed more than once.

3. Make the connection to this function again within the `actions/__init__.py` folder with the following code:

```python

from slack_bolt import App
from .sample_action import sample_action_callback # This can be deleted
from .sample_action import deny_delivery_callback

def register(app: App):
    app.action("sample_action_id")(sample_action_callback) # This can be deleted
    app.action("deny_delivery")(deny_delivery_callback) # Add this line

```

> Test out your code by sending in a confirmation number into your channel and clicking the `Not correct` button. If the message is updated, then you’re good to go onto the next step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test out your app by sending in a confirmation number into your channel and clicking the `Not correct` button. If the message is updated, then you’re good to go onto the next step.
```

I have this weird thing where "code" sounds weird

### Handling a correct delivery ID

The next step is to handle the `Confirm` button. In this case, we’re going to pull up a modal instead of just a message.

> 1. Using the following [modal](https://app.slack.com/block-kit-builder/#%7B%22type%22:%22modal%22,%22callback_id%22:%22approve_delivery_view%22,%22title%22:%7B%22type%22:%22plain_text%22,%22text%22:%22Approve%20Delivery%22%7D,%22private_metadata%22:%22%7Bdelivery_id%7D%22,%22blocks%22:%5B%7B%22type%22:%22section%22,%22text%22:%7B%22type%22:%22mrkdwn%22,%22text%22:%22Approving%20delivery%20*%7Bdelivery_id%7D*%22%7D%7D,%7B%22type%22:%22input%22,%22block_id%22:%22notes%22,%22label%22:%7B%22type%22:%22plain_text%22,%22text%22:%22Additional%20delivery%20notes%22%7D,%22element%22:%7B%22type%22:%22plain_text_input%22,%22action_id%22:%22notes_input%22,%22multiline%22:true,%22placeholder%22:%7B%22type%22:%22plain_text%22,%22text%22:%22Add%20notes...%22%7D%7D,%22optional%22:true%7D,%7B%22type%22:%22input%22,%22block_id%22:%22location%22,%22label%22:%7B%22type%22:%22plain_text%22,%22text%22:%22Delivery%20Location%22%7D,%22element%22:%7B%22type%22:%22plain_text_input%22,%22action_id%22:%22location_input%22,%22placeholder%22:%7B%22type%22:%22plain_text%22,%22text%22:%22Enter%20the%20location%20details...%22%7D%7D,%22optional%22:true%7D,%7B%22type%22:%22input%22,%22block_id%22:%22channel%22,%22label%22:%7B%22type%22:%22plain_text%22,%22text%22:%22Notification%20Channel%22%7D,%22element%22:%7B%22type%22:%22channels_select%22,%22action_id%22:%22channel_select%22,%22placeholder%22:%7B%22type%22:%22plain_text%22,%22text%22:%22Select%20channel%20for%20notifications%22%7D%7D,%22optional%22:false%7D%5D,%22submit%22:%7B%22type%22:%22plain_text%22,%22text%22:%22Approve%22%7D%7D) as a base, create a modal that captures the kind of information that you need.

Reviewer: i'd elaborate this in the same way discussed above

Along the way, you'll learn how to use the Bolt for Python starter app template as a jumping off point for your own custom apps. Let's begin!
	
:::warning[Consider the following]
	
This tutorial was created for educational purposes within a Slack workshop. As a result, it has not been tested quite as rigorously as our sample apps. Proceed carefully if you'd like to use a similar app in production.

:::

## Getting started

### Installing the Slack CLI

If you don't already have the Slack CLI, install it from your terminal: navigate to the installation guide ([for Mac and Linux](/tools/slack-cli/guides/installing-the-slack-cli-for-mac-and-linux) or [for Windows](/tools/slack-cli/guides/installing-the-slack-cli-for-windows)) and follow the steps.

### Cloning the starter app

Once installed, use the command `slack create` in your terminal, select the `bolt-python-starter-template`, then choose your preferred language (this tutorial shows Python). Alternatively, you can clone the [Bolt for Python template](https://github.com/slack-samples/bolt-python-starter-template) using git.

> You can remove the portions from the template that are not used within this tutorial to make things a bit cleaner for yourself. To do this, open your project in VS Code (you can do this from the terminal with the `code .` command) and delete the `commands`, `events`, and `shortcuts` folders from the `/listeners` folder. You can also do the same to the corresponding folders within the `/listeners/tests` folder as well. Finally, remove the imports of these files from the `/listeners/__init__.py` file.

Author: Maybe, but I think we can rework things when that exists and not wait on it for now
